---
layout: post
title:  "PETASCALE TO EXTREME SCALES"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Abstract
Blue Waters, the first sustainable Petascale System and one of the largest and most open systems in the
world, has been providing high quality service for over three years. Not only is it a great resource the enables
unprecedented research, it is also an experimental platform for the convergence of Extreme Computing
and Big Data. This talk will cover the experiences of the Blue Waters project and discuss the successes and
challenges in merging widely different workflows on the same system. Finally, it will explore lessons and
observations for next generations of Extreme Scale systems.

## William Kramer
William Kramer joins CS @ ILLINOIS as a research professor this year.
Since 2008, he has been with the National Center for Supercomputing
Applications (NCSA) on the University of Illinois campus, where he is
the director and principal investigator of the Blue Waters petascale
supercomputer project.
Prior to joining the University of Illinois, Kramer was the general manager
of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) at
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL). Before that he worked at
the NASA Ames Research Center, where he was responsible for all aspects
of operations and customer service for NASA’s Numerical Aerodynamic
Simulator (NAS) supercomputer center and other large computational
projects as well as starting a major Air Traffic Control Program

#### FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2016

#### 4:00 PM | INFORMATICS EAST, RM. 130
