---
layout: post
title: The U.S. Department of Energy Exascale Computing Project
subtitle: Goals and Challenges
---

## Abstract

In 2016 the U.S. Department of Energy established the Exascale Computing Project (ECP) -- a joint project
of the DOE Office of Science (DOE-SC) and the DOE National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) –
that will result in a capable exascale ecosystem and prepare mission critical scientific and engineering
applications to take advantage of that ecosystem.
This presentation will describe the goals of the ECP, its plans for achieving them, the challenges to be
overcome, and its current status, as well as what elements of the exascale ecosystem are outside of the
scope of the ECP.


## Dr. Paul Messina
Dr. Paul Messina is Advisor to the Associate Laboratory Director and
Laboratory on Exascale and Argonne Distinguished Fellow at Argonne
National Laboratory.
His current role is Project Director for the U.S. DOE Exascale Computing
Project, a multi-laboratory project. During 2008-2015 he served as
Director of Science for the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility and in
2002-2004 as Distinguished Senior Computer Scientist at Argonne and
as Advisor to the Director General at CERN (European Organization for
Nuclear Research).
From 1987-2002, Dr. Messina served as founding Director of California
Institute of Technology’s (Caltech) Center for Advanced Computing Research, as Assistant Vice President
for Scientific Computing, and as Faculty Associate for Scientific Computing, Caltech. During a leave from
Caltech in 1999-2000, he led the DOE-NNSA Accelerated Strategic Computing Initiative.
In his first association with Argonne from 1973-1987, he held a number of positions in the Applied Mathematics
Division and was the founding Director of the Mathematics and Computer Science Division.


#### MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017

#### 1:00 - 2:00 PM | UNIVERSITY CLUB, IMU
